docs: add release notes for 0.32.0 (#9301)
determined-ai/determined: docs/release-notes.rst

   unique names. For more information, visit :ref:`master configuration <master-config-reference>`.
   Support for notebooks and other workloads that require proxying is under development.

-  API/CLI/WebUI: In the enterprise edition, route any requests to resource pools not defined in the
   master configuration to the default resource manager, not any additional resource manager, if
   defined.

-  Configuration: In the enterprise edition, add an ``additional_resource_managers`` section that
   can define multiple resource managers following the same patteroas ``resource_manager``. Add
   ``name`` and ``metadata`` fields to individual resource manager definitions.

-  WebUI: In the enterprise edition, add the ability to view resource manager name for resource
   pools.

**Improvements**

-  Configuration: The master configuration parameter ``observability.enable_prometheus`` now
   defaults to ``true``. Consequently, Prometheus endpoints are enabled by default, which does not
   affect clusters that do not use Prometheus.

**Bug Fixes**

-  Since version 0.27.1, a bug has affected the selection functionality in the Experiments page.

>    This bug may cause actions to be applied to more experiments than are visibly selected. For

Reviewer: - A bug was fixed impacting the selection functionality in the Experiments page. Since version 0.27.1, this bug was causing actions to be applied to more experiments than are visibly selected.

>    example, when using the **Select All > Actions > Move** sequence to transfer all experiments from

Reviewer: For example, for versions 0.27.1 to version 0.31.0, when using the **Select All > Actions > Move** sequence to transfer all experiments from

   one project to another, the action may inadvertently include experiments not only from the
   targeted project but also from other projects you have permissions to edit. We urge all users on
   the affected versions to upgrade as soon as possible.

>    -  There is a risk of data loss if, when attempting to delete a set of experiments, the action

Reviewer: - For versions 0.27.1 to version 0.31.0, there is a risk of data loss if, when attempting to delete a set of experiments, the action

      inadvertently deletes a larger set than intended.

   -  When role-based access control (an enterprise edition feature) is enabled, there is a risk of
      a permissions leak if moving experiments from one project to another inadvertently includes
      experiments from other workspaces.

   -  This issue affects all bulk actions including delete, move, archive, unarchive, resume, pause,
      kill, stop, and view in TensorBoard.

>    -  We strongly advise refraining from using the experiment table in the project view to take any
>       actions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   -  We strongly advise refraining from using the experiment table in the project view to take any
      actions until you upgrade.
```

>    -  Workaround: To manage actions on a single trial, use the trial view in the WebUI.

Reviewer 2: can we reword it in a way to make clear this version includes a fix and does not need this workaround? e.g. say `Workaround for versions 0.27.1–0.31.0:` ? if Doug got confused, I can see others confused as well.

      Alternatively, for bulk actions affected by this issue, consider using the command-line
      interface (CLI). You can also turn off the New Experiment List setting under the User Settings
      > Experimental section. For more information visit Manage User Settings under :ref:WebUI

>       <web-ui-if>.

Reviewer 2: that ref is missing backticks I think 
```
:ref:`WebUI <web-ui-if>`.
```

 Release Notes
###############

**************
 Version 0.32
**************

Version 0.32.0
==============

**Release Date:** May 03, 2024

**Breaking Changes**

-  Python SDK and CLI: Password requirements are now enforced for all non-remote users. For more
   information, visit :ref:`password-requirements`.

   -  This change affects the ``create_user``, ``User.change_password``, ``det user create``, and
      ``det user change-password`` commands.
   -  Existing users with empty or non-compliant passwords can still sign in. However, we recommend
      updating these passwords to meet the new requirements as soon as possible.

-  CLI: When creating non-remote users with ``det user create``, setting a password is now
   mandatory.

   -  You can set the password interactively by following the prompts during user creation.
   -  Alternatively, set the password non-interactively using the ``--password`` option.
   -  This requirement does not apply to users created with the ``--remote`` option, as Single
      Sign-On will be used for these users.

**New Features**

> -  Kubernetes: In the enterprise edition, add ability to set up the Determined master service on one

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-  Kubernetes: In the enterprise edition, add the ability to set up the Determined master service on one
```

   Kubernetes cluster and manage workloads across different Kubernetes clusters. Additional
   non-default resource managers and resource pools are configured under the master configuration
   options ``additional_resource_managers`` and ``resource_pools`` (additional resource managers are
   required to have at least one resource pool defined). Additional resource managers and their
   resource pools must have unique names. For more information, visit :ref:`master configuration
   <master-config-reference>`. Support for notebooks and other workloads that require proxying is
   under development.

> -  WebUI: In the enterprise edition, add ability to view resource manager name for resource pools.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-  WebUI: In the enterprise edition, add the ability to view resource manager name for resource pools.
```

-  API/CLI/WebUI: In the enterprise edition, route any requests to resource pools not defined in the
   master configuration to the default resource manager, not any additional resource manager, if
   defined.

> -  Configuration: In the enterprise edition, add a ``name`` and ``metadata`` field to resource

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-  Configuration: In the enterprise edition, add a ``name`` and ``metadata`` field to the resource
```

   manager section in the master configuration. Add an ``additional_resource_managers`` section that
   follows the ``resource_manager`` and ``resource_pool`` configuration pattern.

-  CLI: Add an ``--enterprise-edition`` option for ``det deploy local``. This option enables users
   to easily deploy enterprise images.

**Improvements**

-  Configuration: The master configuration parameter ``observability.enable_prometheus`` now
   defaults to ``true``. Consequently, Prometheus endpoints are enabled by default, which does not
   affect clusters that do not use Prometheus.

> **Bug Fixes**

Reviewer 4: We should include the bulk action bug fix here as well since it affected several prior versions similar to the aurora bug mentioned below

Author: done, @ioga addeda reference

-  Experiment metrics tracking: Add enhanced support for metrics with long names. Previously,
   metrics with names exceeding 63 characters were recorded but not displayed in the UI or returned
   via APIs.

-  Since version 0.28.1, deployments using Amazon Aurora PostgreSQL-Compatible Edition Serverless V1
   as the database have been at risk of becoming unresponsive due to certain autoscaling errors.

>    This issue affects multiple ``det deploy aws`` deployment types, including ``default simple``,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   This issue affects multiple ``det deploy aws`` deployment types, including ``simple``,
```

   non-default resource managers and resource pools are configured under the master configuration
   options ``additional_resource_managers`` and ``resource_pools`` (additional resource managers are
   required to have at least one resource pool defined). Additional resource managers and their
   resource pools must have unique names. For more information, visit :ref:`master configuration
   <master-config-reference>`. Support for notebooks and other workloads that require proxying is
   under development.

-  WebUI: In the enterprise edition, add ability to view resource manager name for resource pools.

-  API/CLI/WebUI: In the enterprise edition, route any requests to resource pools not defined in the
   master configuration to the default resource manager, not any additional resource manager, if
   defined.

-  Configuration: In the enterprise edition, add a ``name`` and ``metadata`` field to resource
   manager section in the master configuration. Add an ``additional_resource_managers`` section that
   follows the ``resource_manager`` and ``resource_pool`` configuration pattern.

**New Features**

> -  CLI: Add an ``--enterprise-edition`` option for ``det deploy local``. This option enables users

Reviewer 4: Are there any limitations here?

Author: @eecsliu ?

Reviewer 5: they need to be logged into docker before they can pull from the determined ee repo, but that should be all. it's functionally similar to the other `--enterprise-edition` flags from commands like `det deploy aws up`

Author: @hkumar92 do you want this added to the docs?

Reviewer 4: Yes please

Reviewer: not customer facing

please remove 

- CLI: Add an ``--enterprise-edition`` option for ``det deploy local``. This option enables users

Reviewer 5: on it

   to easily deploy enterprise images.

> 

Reviewer: combine this "new features" section into the above so that there is only one section

 Release Notes
###############

**************
 Version 0.32
**************

Version 0.32.0
==============

**Release Date:** May 03, 2024

Notice: This release includes a fix for the bug posing a risk of data loss. We urge all users on the
affected versions to upgrade as soon as possible. See ``Bug Fixes`` below for details.

**Breaking Changes**

> -  Python SDK and CLI: Password requirements are now enforced for all non-remote users. For more
>    information, visit :ref:`password-requirements`.
> 
>    -  This change affects the ``create_user``, ``User.change_password``, ``det user create``, and
>       ``det user change-password`` commands.
>    -  Existing users with empty or non-compliant passwords can still sign in. However, we recommend
>       updating these passwords to meet the new requirements as soon as possible.
> 
> -  CLI: When creating non-remote users with ``det user create``, setting a password is now
>    mandatory.
> 
>    -  You can set the password interactively by following the prompts during user creation.
>    -  Alternatively, set the password non-interactively using the ``--password`` option.
>    -  This requirement does not apply to users created with the ``--remote`` option, as Single
>       Sign-On will be used for these users.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-  Python SDK and CLI: Password requirements are now enforced for all non-remote users. (The
   requirements do not apply to remote users, since they use single sign-on.) Existing users with
   empty or non-compliant passwords can still sign in. However, we recommend updating these
   passwords to meet the new requirements as soon as possible. For more information, visit
   :ref:`password-requirements`.

   This change affects the :meth:`~determined.experimental.client.Determined.create_user` and
   :meth:`~determined.experimental.client.User.change_password` SDK methods and the ``det user
   create`` and ``det user change-password`` CLI commands.

   When creating non-remote users at the CLI with ``det user create``, setting a password is now
   mandatory. You can set the password interactively by following the prompts during user creation
   or non-interactively with the ``--password`` option.
```

 Release Notes
###############

**************
 Version 0.32
**************

Version 0.32.0
==============

**Release Date:** May 03, 2024

Notice: This release includes a fix for the bug posing a risk of data loss. We urge all users on the
affected versions to upgrade as soon as possible. See ``Bug Fixes`` below for details.

> 

Reviewer: Notice: This release contains an important fix for a bug that poses significant data loss risk. All users on affected versions are strongly encouraged to upgrade as soon as possible. For more details, visit ``Bug Fixes``.

Reviewer: my suggested edit doesn't seem to be applied?

Reviewer: my fault, forgot to refresh

**Breaking Changes**

-  Python SDK and CLI: Password requirements are now enforced for all non-remote users. For more
   information, visit :ref:`password-requirements`.

   -  This change affects the ``create_user``, ``User.change_password``, ``det user create``, and
      ``det user change-password`` commands.
   -  Existing users with empty or non-compliant passwords can still sign in. However, we recommend
      updating these passwords to meet the new requirements as soon as possible.

-  CLI: When creating non-remote users with ``det user create``, setting a password is now
   mandatory.

   -  You can set the password interactively by following the prompts during user creation.
   -  Alternatively, set the password non-interactively using the ``--password`` option.
   -  This requirement does not apply to users created with the ``--remote`` option, as Single
      Sign-On will be used for these users.

**New Features**

> -  Kubernetes: In the enterprise edition, add the ability to set up the Determined master service on
>    one Kubernetes cluster and manage workloads across different Kubernetes clusters. Additional
>    non-default resource managers and resource pools are configured under the master configuration
>    options ``additional_resource_managers`` and ``resource_pools`` (additional resource managers are
>    required to have at least one resource pool defined). Additional resource managers and their
>    resource pools must have unique names. For more information, visit :ref:`master configuration
>    <master-config-reference>`. Support for notebooks and other workloads that require proxying is
>    under development.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-  Kubernetes: In the enterprise edition, add the ability to set up the Determined master service on
   one Kubernetes cluster and manage workloads across different Kubernetes clusters. Additional
   non-default resource managers and resource pools are configured under the
   ``additional_resource_managers`` section (additional resource managers are required to have at
   least one resource pool defined). Additional resource managers and their resource pools must have
   unique names. For more information, visit :ref:`master configuration <master-config-reference>`.
   Support for notebooks and other workloads that require proxying is under development.
```

-  WebUI: In the enterprise edition, add the ability to view resource manager name for resource

>    pools.

Reviewer 3: Maybe move this to the bottom of the section, since the other items seem more closely tied to the big one above.

-  API/CLI/WebUI: In the enterprise edition, route any requests to resource pools not defined in the
   master configuration to the default resource manager, not any additional resource manager, if
   defined.

> -  Configuration: In the enterprise edition, add a ``name`` and ``metadata`` field to the resource
>    manager section in the master configuration. Add an ``additional_resource_managers`` section that
>    follows the ``resource_manager`` and ``resource_pool`` configuration pattern.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-  Configuration: In the enterprise edition, add an ``additional_resource_managers`` section that
   can define multiple resource managers following the same patteroas ``resource_manager``. Add
   ``name`` and ``metadata`` fields to individual resource manager definitions.
```

**Improvements**

-  Configuration: The master configuration parameter ``observability.enable_prometheus`` now
   defaults to ``true``. Consequently, Prometheus endpoints are enabled by default, which does not
   affect clusters that do not use Prometheus.

**Bug Fixes**

-  Since version 0.27.0, the selection functionality in the Experiments page had a bug where it
   attempts to perform actions on a larger set of experiments than selected on the screen. For
   instance, if you try to move all experiments in one project into another using Select All ->
   Actions -> Move, it may inadvertently include all experiments from the project also from other
   projects you have access to edit. We urge all users on the affected versions to upgrade as soon

>    as possible.

Reviewer: - Since version 0.27.0, a bug has affected the selection functionality in the Experiments page. This bug may cause actions to be applied to more experiments than are visibly selected. For example, when using the **Select All** > **Actions** > **Move** sequence to transfer all experiments from one project to another, the action may inadvertently include experiments not only from the targeted project but also from other projects you have permissions to edit. We urge all users on the affected versions to upgrade as soon as possible.

   -  There is a risk of data loss if attempting to delete a set of experiments delete and it
      inadvertently deletes a larger set than intended.

> 

Reviewer: - There is a risk of data loss if, when attempting to delete a set of experiments, the action inadvertently deletes a larger set than intended.

   -  For RBAC users, thereis a risk of permissions leak if moving experiments from one project to
      another includes experiments from other workspaces.

> 

Reviewer: - For RBAC (Role-Based Access Control)(an Enterprise-edition feature) users, there is a risk of a permissions leak if moving experiments from one project to another inadvertently includes experiments from other workspaces.

   -  The behavior is true for all bulk actions (delete, move, archive, unarchive, resume, pause,
      kill, stop, and view in TensorBoard).

> 

Reviewer: - This issue affects all bulk actions including delete, move, archive, unarchive, resume, pause, kill, stop, and viewing in TensorBoard.

>    -  We strongly advise refraining from using the Experiment table in the project view to take any

Reviewer 4: One other potential alternative, that can be confirmed by @bitfyre and team is whether turning off the New Experiment List from user settings will also solve the issue for all versions 0.27 and above

>       actions. As a workaround, utilize the Trial View in the Web UI for actions on a single trial,

Reviewer 3: This mentions trials, but the rest of the description only talks about experiments. If the bug also affected any views for trials, that should also be mentioned initially. But I don't have context for the actual bug, so I'll just say that here and not change anything myself.

Reviewer 2: we don't have bulk trials view

Reviewer 3: Thanks! In that case, it seems like trials don't need to be mentioned here at all.

Reviewer 2: the workaround is that you can go into single trial view to do the same action on the them one-by-one

> -  Since version 0.27.0, the selection functionality in the Experiments page had a bug where it
>    attempts to perform actions on a larger set of experiments than selected on the screen. For
>    instance, if you try to move all experiments in one project into another using Select All ->
>    Actions -> Move, it may inadvertently include all experiments from the project also from other
>    projects you have access to edit. We urge all users on the affected versions to upgrade as soon
>    as possible.
> 
>    -  There is a risk of data loss if attempting to delete a set of experiments delete and it
>       inadvertently deletes a larger set than intended.
> 
>    -  For RBAC users, thereis a risk of permissions leak if moving experiments from one project to
>       another includes experiments from other workspaces.
> 
>    -  The behavior is true for all bulk actions (delete, move, archive, unarchive, resume, pause,
>       kill, stop, and view in TensorBoard).
> 
>    -  We strongly advise refraining from using the Experiment table in the project view to take any
>       actions. As a workaround, utilize the Trial View in the Web UI for actions on a single trial,
>       or use the CLI for affected actions as an alternative.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-  Starting in version 0.27.0, the selection functionality in the experiments list page has had a
   bug where it attempted to perform actions on a larger set of experiments than shown on the
   screen. For instance, if you tried to move all experiments in one project into another using
   Select All -> Actions -> Move, it may also include experiments from other projects you had access
   to edit. We urge all users on the affected versions to upgrade as soon as possible.

   -  There is a risk of data loss if attempting to delete multiple experiments.

   -  For RBAC users, there is a risk of permissions leak if moving experiments from one project to
      another includes experiments from other workspaces.

   -  The behavior is true for all bulk actions (delete, move, archive, unarchive, resume, pause,
      kill, stop, and view in TensorBoard).

   -  We strongly advise refraining from using the experiment table in the project view to take any
      actions. As a workaround, use the trial view in the WebUI for actions on a single trial or the
      CLI for bulk actions.
```

Reviewer 2: sorry - I'll use Tara's suggestions

Reviewer 3: No problem, they look pretty solid, though let me take a moment to tweak just a bit.

> 

Reviewer: - Workaround: To manage actions on a single trial, use the Trial View in the WebUI. Alternatively, for bulk actions affected by this issue, consider using the Command Line Interface (CLI).

 Release Notes
###############

**************
 Version 0.32
**************

Version 0.32.0
==============

**Release Date:** May 03, 2024

Notice: This release includes a fix for the bug posing a risk of data loss. We urge all users on the
affected versions to upgrade as soon as possible. See ``Bug Fixes`` below for details.

**Breaking Changes**

-  Python SDK and CLI: Password requirements are now enforced for all non-remote users. For more
   information, visit :ref:`password-requirements`.

   -  This change affects the ``create_user``, ``User.change_password``, ``det user create``, and
      ``det user change-password`` commands.
   -  Existing users with empty or non-compliant passwords can still sign in. However, we recommend
      updating these passwords to meet the new requirements as soon as possible.

> -  CLI: When creating non-remote users with ``det user create``, setting a password is now

Reviewer 3: This bit seems kind of redundant. Let me fiddle with it for a bit.

   ``name`` and ``metadata`` fields to individual resource manager definitions.

-  WebUI: In the enterprise edition, add the ability to view resource manager name for resource
   pools.

**Improvements**

-  Configuration: The master configuration parameter ``observability.enable_prometheus`` now
   defaults to ``true``. Consequently, Prometheus endpoints are enabled by default, which does not
   affect clusters that do not use Prometheus.

**Bug Fixes**

-  Since version 0.27.1, a bug has affected the selection functionality in the Experiments page.
   This bug may cause actions to be applied to more experiments than are visibly selected. For
   example, when using the **Select All > Actions > Move** sequence to transfer all experiments from
   one project to another, the action may inadvertently include experiments not only from the
   targeted project but also from other projects you have permissions to edit. We urge all users on
   the affected versions to upgrade as soon as possible.

   -  There is a risk of data loss if, when attempting to delete a set of experiments, the action
      inadvertently deletes a larger set than intended.

>    -  For RBAC (Role-Based Access Control) (an Enterprise-edition feature) users, there is a risk of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   -  When role-based access control (an enterprise edition feature) is enabled, there is a risk of
```

      a permissions leak if moving experiments from one project to another inadvertently includes
      experiments from other workspaces.

   -  This issue affects all bulk actions including delete, move, archive, unarchive, resume, pause,

>       kill, stop, and viewing in TensorBoard.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      kill, stop, and view in TensorBoard.
```

Reviewer 3: (Or alternately go the other way and make the whole list "deleting, saving, moving, ...".)

>    -  We strongly advise refraining from using the Experiment table in the project view to take any

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   -  We strongly advise refraining from using the experiment table in the project view to take any
```

      actions.

>    -  Workaround: To manage actions on a single trial, use the Trial View in the WebUI.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   -  Workaround: To manage actions on a single trial, use the trial view in the WebUI.
```

      Alternatively, for bulk actions affected by this issue, consider using the command-line
      interface (CLI).

> 

Reviewer: Are we needing to update the list of workarounds to include turning off the New Experiment List setting?

If so, then 

` -  We strongly advise refraining from using the experiment table in the project view to take any
      actions.

   -  Workaround: To manage actions on a single trial, use the trial view in the WebUI.
      Alternatively, for bulk actions affected by this issue, consider using the command-line
      interface (CLI). You can also turn off the **New Experiment List** setting under the **User
      Settings** > **Experimental** section. For more information visit **Manage User Settings**
      under :ref:`WebUI <web-ui-if>`.`

Author: done

>    -  Workaround: To manage actions on a single trial, use the Trial View in the WebUI.
>       Alternatively, for bulk actions affected by this issue, consider using the Command Line
>       Interface (CLI).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   -  Workaround: To manage actions on a single trial, use the trial view in the WebUI.
      Alternatively, for bulk actions affected by this issue, consider using the command-line
      interface (CLI).
```
